Update Tracker Protocol and add example requests (#124)
snowplow/documentation: docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/snowplow-tracker-protocol/index.md

sidebar_position: 80
---

# Tracker Protocol Overview

> Snowplow trackers fire _events_, which are either `GET` or `POST` requests to a Snowplow collector. By appending an events parameters to these requests, trackers can pass data into the collector for processing by Snowplow.

Reviewer: Something is off here. Maybe “By appending parameters...”?

The Snowplow Tracker Protocol is the list of all the parameters that Snowplow trackers use when firing events to push data into the Snowplow collectors. Each parameter maps onto one or more fields in the Snowplow events table employed in storage. 

> This documentation should be used by anyone who would like to build their own tracker or who would like to understand the tracker payload in more detail. By utilising the parameters documented here, the author of a new tracker can be confident that his / her tracker will work with the rest of the Snowplow stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is for you if you want to understand the tracker payload in more detail, and especially if you are building your own tracker. In the latter case, utilizing the parameters documented here will ensure that your tracker works with the rest of the Snowplow stack.
```

> Each parameter of the Snowplow Tracker Protocol is described in the tables below, whose columns are:

Reviewer: Maybe just remove this? It adds 0 information

- **Parameter**: The actual raw event parameter name.
- **Maps to**: The column name in Snowplow events table which the parameter maps to.
- **Type**: The actual type that the parameter represents.
- **Description**: A short description for the parameter.
- **Example values**: Examples of valid values for the parameter.

:::caution

When the event is sent from a Snowplow tracker, all parameters should be stringified. Those strings are parsed back to their actual type during [Enrichment](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/enrichment-components/index.md).

:::

## Common Parameters

### Event parameters

> | **Parameter** | **Maps to**           | **Type** | **Description**  | **Example values**                     |

Reviewer: Change “Maps to” to “Table column” or something like that

| `se_ac`       | `se_action`   | text     | The action / event itself                                               | `add-to-basket`, `play-video` |
| `se_la`       | `se_label`    | text     | A label often used to refer to the 'object' the action is performed on  | `dog-skateboarding-video`     |
| `se_pr`       | `se_property` | text     | A property associated with either the action or the object              | `hd`                          |
| `se_va`       | `se_value`    | decimal  | A value associated with the user action                                 | `13.99`                       |

### Event Entitiy Tracking

Custom entities can be used to add additional context to an event.

Each individual entity is a self-describing JSON such as:

```json
{
  "schema": "iglu:com.my_company/user/jsonschema/1-0-0",
  "data": {
    "fb_uid": "9999xyz"
  }
}
```

::: info

`"iglu:com.my_company/user/jsonschema/1-0-0"` respresents a [self-describing JSON](/docs/pipeline-components-and-applications/iglu/common-architecture/self-describing-jsons/index.md). It is used to validate the event data against a predefined JSON Schema as part of a Snowplow pipeline.

:::

> All context to be attached to an event will be wrapped in an array by the user and passed to the tracker, which will wrap them in a self-describing JSON:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All entities attached to an event will be wrapped in an array by the user and passed to the tracker, which will wrap them in a self-describing JSON:
```
